# Taxes, taxes, taxes

The most frustrating part of tax season is that you must do all the work of
preparing your tax return, and then *use* some third-party company to actually
file your return online. In this context, "use" can very well mean "pay", and
for many state taxes, it does mean "pay".

Since the tax code is so complicated, you may think this money is well-spent,
right? Well, no. Turns out the tax-prep industry has been working diligently
towards making filing taxes on your own even harder.
[Need](https://www.propublica.org/article/how-the-maker-of-turbotax-fought-free-simple-tax-filing).
[proof](https://www.warren.senate.gov/files/documents/Tax_Maze_Report.pdf)?
[Lobbying](https://www.nbcnews.com/business/taxes/turbotax-h-r-block-spend-millions-lobbying-us-keep-doing-n736386).

In Pennsylvania I used the state-provided e-file option, which worked great. In
California, that doesn't look like an option. It may be possible to obtain the
required forms, print them, and send them in. That's my plan.

However, the history of taxfiling in California shows that there is a better
way. California's [Ready
Return](https://itep.org/the-best-way-to-radically-simplify-tax-filing/)
program was extremely successful for while it lasted. For that program,
qualifying residents received their return already filled-out by the
government, and all they had to do is check that there were no mistakes.

Of course, there were limitations, as only the simple tax returns qualified for
the program. However, that's a few million people at least in California alone.
Some expansion of the program shouldn't be too hard, saving most tax payers
some dollars. For those non-qualifying returns, the current system is
apparently adequate.

Most advanced countries in Europe already do some form of return-free filing.
Surely, America can apply the same
[solutions](https://itep.org/the-best-way-to-radically-simplify-tax-filing/)?

Others have tried to take on the challenge themselves, [Joe
Bankman](https://law.stanford.edu/directory/joseph-bankman/#slsnav-subsidence-latest-campaign-polls-holding-profits-offshore-aid-in-dying)
has spent
[$30,000](https://www.npr.org/2017/03/29/521954033/stanford-professor-loses-political-battle-to-simplify-tax-filing-process)
of [his
money](https://www.npr.org/sections/money/2017/03/22/521132960/episode-760-tax-hero)
on
[lobbying](https://priceonomics.com/the-stanford-professor-who-fought-the-tax-lobby/).
Did it help? A little. However, tax-preparers pockets are deeper. We all pay
the price.

What are the
[downsides](https://www.forbes.com/sites/janetnovack/2013/04/09/five-fallacies-about-return-free-tax-filing/#11465e5d2e92)?
Several have been put forward, none very convincing, as I will show now.

First, it is said the US tax code is so much more complex than European
counterparts that return-free filing would be much harder to implement. Private
companies, or so assume the argument must go, are able to solve that problem
better than the government. I would argue that this would merely be a reason to
simplify the tax code, and I would like to see some sort of indication (not
even asking for a hard proof!) that the US tax code really is more complex.

Second, it is argued that the tax reporting burden will shift from the employee
to the employer, and this creates a particularly large additional burden on
small businesses. Maybe this is true, maybe not. What is true, is that
businesses already need to do some kind of tax reporting by, e.g., issuing
W-2's. How does sending the W-2's to the government instead create a large
additional burden?

Third, the argument is made that the IRS would need additional resources to
provide a return-free filing program. I assume this is likely correct: the IRS
would indeed need additional money to fund such a program. Here is the crux,
though. Is that more money than tax payers are paying the tax-prep industry?
Anyone know the answer?

Fourth, it is argued that Americans will be shy to fix mistakes in a
government-filled form. Really? And how is the current situation any better?
Also, I trust Americans to do the right thing and complain.

Fifth, the argument is that California's Ready Return program was popular, but
only with a very limited sample of tax payers, and the usage has been
declining. Ah, so where is the analysis why? Maybe because of tax-prepper's
lobbying?

Finally, there was an argument that Ready Return was cheaper for the California
tax board not because of return-free filing, but because it was electronic.
Alright, so we should file electronically. I'm in. Not an argument for or
against return-free filing.

Anyway, my analysis here is likely somewhat erratic and incomplete. However, it
strikes me as odd that there is so little discussion about this. Who's affected?

Some questions I'd still like answered: How much do tax payers pay tax-prep
companies? How much money do businesses spend preparing taxes? How much time is
spent preparing taxes? What is the budget of the IRS and the state agencies?
