# Will Texas High-Speed Rail benefit from California's Investment?

Most people probably have heard that California is building one swell set of
tracks of high-speed rail (HSR) between Madera, CA and Bakersfield, CA,
eventually to connect San Francisco and Los Angeles.

Most may also have heard how much it costs... a lot!

The shitshow (sorry, but using a more polite word didn't seem polite to
reality...) that is California High-Speed Rail cost overrun seems utterly nuts.
Initially in the ballpark of $38 billion for the whole network, now Madera to
bakersfield alone is supposed to be $100 billion. Why?

Getting good answers, or any answers at all, is difficult. Some say it is the
property acquisition, the lawyering, the delays caused by acquisition delay,
feature creep like nicer stations, grade separation everywhere, massive
protective walls, more grade separations, just plain cost misestimation, risk
mismanagement, politics, or maybe all of the above.

One reason I have heard recently repeated on different scales again and again
is much simple: The US doesn't have the expertise, yet. This may be try on
several levels: from the bureaucracies in government to the companies building
it. Expertise must be built up through experience, and the last time the US
built a lot of rail is about a hundred years ago. Some of that expertise is now
lost, and what isn't lost needs updating for high-speed rail.

Thus, a big portion of the cost overruns are likely developing the technology
to build HSR. Judging by the fancy grade separations that are being built, I
wouldn't be too surprised if this will lead to significant technological
learning. The US also needs to learn to manufacture all the rails, HSR-quality.

Sure, the US isn't starting from scratch, so the other problems probably
contribute significantly as well. However, if this technological learning is
actually taking place then the Texas HSR project, and indeed all HSR projects
througout the country would benefit from California's investment into HSR.

Is technological learning actually happening? After all, you'd think the US
already knows how build bridges and such. How different can HSR be? Maybe the
companies are just learning to extract more money from the government?

So how can we increase the technological learning rate? For one, contractors
need to fear their competition. The CA HSR authority needs to be able to
quickly cull individual contractors. If you only have very few contractors,
then you cannot afford to loose any, so they can demand almost any price and
deliver as slowly as they want without much consequence or learning happening.
That means, we need more contractors, which likely means smaller ones that have
the potential to grow.
