# R: zero-sum, D: win-win?

Are Republicans' views shaped by a zero-sum game, and Democrats' views shaped
by a win-win attitude? That is the question I am going to explore here.

To explain what I mean, consider the limited resources we have in terms of
land, water, oil, and various ores, to name a few. Clearly, the planet is
limited in its supply of these things, and the US in particular is just
entering the period where it is limited by land. In the past, there was always
more land available. No more.

That means, these resources need to be shared. If I buy a plot of land, that
means you don't have it, that means you cannot grow any crops on it. If you get
the job on the field that is left, then I don't get that job. Furthermore,
agriculture has been getting more efficient in terms of output per farmworker
(maybe not necessarily in terms of output per land, but that is a separate
issue). Don't steel my farm-working job!

On the other hand much activity in the cities benefits from collaboration and
more people. Engineering challenges can often be split among several
engineering groups, or the same problem can be attacked by different companies.
In science, collaborations are very fruitful to get the expertise into your
project without you needing to spend the time to learn everything from scratch.
We are fundamentally people-limited. More is usually better. Sometimes even
just for the competition aspect.

In any case, this win-win philosophy is dominant in the cities. The more people
the better! Land can be created by building high-rises and multi-story
buildings. The city is insulated from the concerns about limits in the
countryside.

This aspect is exacerbated by the difference in education. In order to benefit
from the win-win situation, you need to be a specialist. So a farmhand will
have a hard time finding a job in the city. On the other hand, the specialist
that benefits from the (to him) anonymous network of farmers can be ignorant
about the limits of agricultural production. The specialist can often even be
ignorant about the limits of other resources like steel or lithium. The
farmhand cannot.

Is this a reason why urban and rural areas vote differently? You tell me.
