# Inflation is Needed for Accuracy

Now and then I've discussed with people my thoughts on [Inflation is
Fair](blog-20220409-inflation-is-fair.html). Several things have come up that I
should address.

First, I am not arguing that the current system (or even just the current
inflation in 2022) is fair. I am not arguing that the current mechanisms that
produce inflation are good. In fact, I am pretty silent on those.

Perhaps I should phrase the problem differently. Imagine a society without
money. Resources will need to be allocated in some way, and to facilitate that
we keep track of the value of each person's work in some kind of ledger.

If one person did high-value work (or a lot of low-value work), then they
should be able to command more resources. Maybe we can assign some kind of
"*work credits*" to them. They can then show them to others in exchange for
resources like that tasty bread at the bakery or some new shoes.
(OKOKOKOKKOK... I just reinvented something we might as well call money.
However, money has too many connotations, so let's call it "*work credits*". It
will allow us to think beyond the limits of *money* - just in case your
particular definition of money has too many limits.)

Now, most products of work lose value over time. This is especially true if the
economy is changing a lot. Therefore, your *work credits* from yesteryear
should be able to command less than they used to. This depreciation of your
work credits is necessary to accurately assess the worth your work from that
time.

This is especially true if productivity is increasing. However, if productivity
is decreasing, then that old tractor, for example, gets harder to produce, so
the value of the credits of the people who produced it should be increasing.
That would be deflation, though it likely gets diluted by inflation of other
products. On the other hand, the tractor is also losing value as it breaks down
every now and then, needs repairs, rusts, etc. So it will not be all that
obvious whether the depreciation or appreciation of the tractor wins. Makes
sense?

Another thorny issue is that of real estate. And here I don't have a clear
answer, yet, because there are a lot of conflating issues here. Anything from
local building restrictions, zoning laws, and what not, to the fact that there
are only so many acres of land, to the fact that land can change. I am probably
missing a lot. What do you think?

Also, I have utterly ignored the issue of how to create that inflation. I have
no good idead on that. Clearly, it needs to be able to account for depreciation
of goods, and likely also for productivity changes. What's your suggestion?
