# My Spam gets more attention

So both GMail and Hotmail have, for some time now -- few years maybe -- been
overly aggressive with their spam filtering. As a result, many false positives
land in the spam or junk folder.

What is a false positive? It is when an email is incorrectly ("falsely")
classified as a spam message. It happens just about every day now. In fact, on
Hotmail it has been several weeks since there was a real spam message in the
junk folder. Most messages in there are actual legitimate emails.

For an egregious example, recently my stipend payment confirmation was found in
the spam folder.

As a result, I have been treating the spam/junk folder as another inbox.
(Unified junk box? Anyone? Hello?)

Furthermore, Hotmail deletes messages in the junk folder after 10 days. No way
to change this.

As a result, I now check the junk folder more carefully than my inbox. Hm. That
is, the junk-mail candidates receive more attention than my
classified-as-legitimate emails. Did I loose? Did the attention-economy win?

Let's have a look at those spam messages. On GMail it is not actually that bad
(except for that stipend payment). Most spam-classified emails are indeed spam.
On Hotmail, I rarely get any spam, and most spam-classified email is actually
recurring emails from groups I subscribe to (e.g.,
[equalcitizens.us](https://equalcitizens.us/)) and receipts and advertizements
from legitimate businesses.

That latter category would actually be easy to fix: In the US there is a law
that requires businesses to provide a link allowing you to unsubscribe. You can
usually find this near the end of every email they send. I have made use of
this in the past, and attribute this as one of the reasons I don't get much
spam in  the Hotmail account.

So the solution for these should be straightforward: make that link
auto-discoverable. Then, the email client can find it, and post a prominent
single-click button that lets me unsubscribe if that is what I want.

Obviously, that only works for legitimate businesses, but it would be a huge
step forward. Other solutions require having everyone you know or possibly will
want to know even if you don't know them yet in your address book. That
solution is clearly suboptimal, especially when these are contacts you email
with only rarely. Then, they easily slip through the cracks (do I even know
everyone's email?), which brings me back to checking that spam folder every
day.

Of course, more obvious is to get rid of the spam folder entirely. Also a
surprisingly effective option. However, Hotmail does not let you do that (gotta
use your email client), and GMail makes it hard. Oh well, let's give those spam
messages my full attention. Disunified inbox.
