# Science Quantifies Uncertainty

Philosophy demands irrefutable truth. Ideology demands unquestioned faith.
Science deals with the murky ground between these two extremes.

What do I mean? A philosopher will never be satisfied by a finite number of
experiments. After all, the next time you perform the experiment, it may have a
different outcome. There is no way you can be 100% sure it will end the same.

An ideologist, on the other hand, will be satisfied after running the
experiment just a single time, as along as it confirms their beliefs. If it
doesn't confirm their beliefs, then the ideologist will proclaim the experiment
was performed badly or is invalid in some other way.

That is, an ideologist will keep their beliefs even in the event of counter
evidence, and a philosopher will never be sure of anything but the most limited
statements.

The scientist, however, is content with a good description of the world, even
if he knows it is not perfect. In fact, a good scientist will quantify their
uncertainty. (And a great scientist will work to reduce that uncertainty.)

For example, we observe the Sun rising. On the first day, the scientist may
proclaim: "That's interesting! I have no idea if it will rise again tomorrow."

On the second day, they observe the Sun rising again. Now the scientist will
proclaim: "That's interesting! On both days that I have been around, the Sun
rose! I will give it a 66%[^1] chance that it will rise again tomorrow."

On the third day, the Sun rises again. The scientist proclaims: "That's
interesting! The Sun has risen on all three days I was here to observe. I give
it a 75% chance that it will rise again tomorrow."

Days pass. The Sun rises and rises and rises. Every day.

On the 99th day, the Sun rises yet again. Now the scientist proclaims: "That's
interesting! I have observed the Sun rise on all of the 99 days that I have
been observing. I am 99% certain that it will rise again tomorrow."

The more observations the scientist gathers, the more certain they become
that the Sun rises every day. Of course, there are pitfalls here. Maybe the
scientist has talked to other people that have seen more sunrises, or some
other people that speculate that the Sun cannot be rising forever, perhaps
because they haven't seen a sunset, yet, or because they have a theory that the
Sun will stop burning in a few billion years. The scientist combines all this
data to come to an uncertainty quantification of the theory that the Sun rises
on any given day.

That is, science quantifies the reliability of ideas. Interesting science
concerns itself with those models that have high reliability.

Does this mean that science quantifies the truthfulness of an idea? Maybe, and
I would say that is certainly a goal of science.


[^1]: One can quibble with these percentages. My reasoning is that if you
      observed only one sunrise, then that could really just be an anecdote.
      It's like trying to estimate both mean and variance from a single data
      point. In essence, the scientist must establish the domain of possible
      answers and the probability from that one observation. Thus, after one
      observation, the probability should be 50% for the next day. I'd be happy
      to hear a more formal argument here.
